docs: workflow Spring SDK (#1428)
lightbend/kalix-jvm-sdk: docs/src/modules/spring/pages/workflow-entities.adoc

= Implementing Workflow Entities
:page-aliases: spring:workflow.adoc
:sample-url: https://github.com/lightbend/kalix-jvm-sdk/tree/main/samples/spring-transfer-workflow

//TODO prepare opening paragraph

== Modeling workflow state

> Workflow state design should be oriented around data that are not required to run all workflow step but also to track workflow progress.

Reviewer: I don't think we should be prescriptive about what should be put on the Workflow state. I mean, we don't need to say something like 'it should or it should not'. 

Better if we say that a Workflow has a state and that on each iteration we can update it. We can use it to track progress or to validate steps. Or whatever we see fitting.

== Modeling state

We want to build a simple workflow that transfers funds between two wallets. Before that, we will create a wallet subdomain with some basic functionalities that we could use later. For simplicity a `WalletEntity` is implemented as a `ValueEntity`, but for a production-ready solution an `EventSourcedEntity` would be much better choice.

[source,java]
.src/main/java/com/example/wallet/WalletEntity.java
----
include::example$spring-transfer-workflow/src/main/java/com/example/wallet/WalletEntity.java[tag=wallet]
----
<1> An endpoint to create a wallet with an initial balance.
<2> An endpoint to withdraw funds from the wallet.
<3> An endpoint to deposit funds to the wallet.
<4> An endpoint to get current wallet balance.

> Now we could focus on the workflow implementation itself. A workflow has state, which can be updated in command handlers and transition methods. During the state modeling we might consider the data required for validation, running the steps, collecting the information from steps or tracking the workflow progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we can focus on the workflow implementation itself. A workflow has state - which can be updated in command handlers - and transition methods. During state modeling we should consider what information is required for validation, running the steps, collecting data from steps or tracking the workflow progress.
```

[source,java,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/transfer/TransferState.java
----
include::example$spring-transfer-workflow/src/main/java/com/example/transfer/TransferState.java[tag=domain]
----
<1> A `Transfer` record encapsulates data required to withdraw and deposit funds.
<2> A `TransferStatus` enum is used to track workflow progress.

== Implementing behavior

Now that we have our workflow state defined, the remaining tasks can be summarized as follows:

- declare your entity and pick an entity type and key (it needs to be unique as it will be used for sharding purposes);
- define an access point (i.e. a route path) to your entity;

> - implement endpoint(s) to interact with the workflow (e.g. to start a workflow, or provide additional data);

Reviewer: shall we also mention: "or retrieve its current state"?

<2> We should handle the situation when the workflow is already running and return a proper message. Otherwise, we might corrupt the running workflow.
<3> From the incoming command we create an initial `TransferState`.
<4> We instruct Kalix to persist the new state.
<5> With the `transitionTo` method, we inform that the name of the first step is `"withdraw"` and the input for this step is a `Withdraw` object.
<6> The last instruction is to inform the caller that the workflow was successfully started.

IMPORTANT: For simplicity purposes, we are reusing the internal `Transfer` record as a request body. This should be a separate class and our domain state model shouldn't be exposed as an entity public `API`.

== Workflow definition

One missing piece of our transfer workflow implementation is a workflow `definition` method, which composes all steps connected with transitions. A workflow `Step` has a unique name, an action to perform (e.g. deferred call to an existing Kalix component, or asynchronous call to any external service) and a transition to select the next step (or `end` transition to finish the workflow, in case of the last step).

> //TODO add some diagram or sth

Author: yeah, next time :)
